Add Dragino LPS8N Basics Station docs (#1340)
TheThingsIndustries/lorawan-stack-docs: doc/content/gateways/models/dragino-lps8/udp.md

---
title: "Connect Dragino LPS8N with UDP Packet Forwarder"
description: ""
---

This section contains instructions for connecting the Dragino LPS8N LoRaWAN® gateway to {{% tts %}} using the [{{% udp-pf %}}]({{< ref "/gateways/concepts/udp" >}}).

<!--more-->

Before proceeding with the next step, we assume you have set up internet access for the LPS8N using one of the following methods:

- Using the WAN port of the LPS8N
- As a WiFi client

> - Using the built-in 4G modem

Reviewer: Isn't this a prerequisite for both methods of connecting?

> - Using the built-in 4G modem

Reviewer: Since this seems to be a prerequisite for both LBS and UDP modes, put this in the main file as part of prerequisites

On the Web UI, navigate to **LoRaWAN > LoRaWAN** in the menu.

On the LoRaWAN Configuration page, configure the following settings:

1. **Service Provider**: `The Things Network V3`

> 2. **Server Address**: `eu1.cloud.thethings.network`

Reviewer: Is it always this exact server address?

3. **Gateway ID**: This is the default Gateway EUI for LPS8N. You can keep it as is.
4. **Uplink Port**: `1700`
5. **Downlink Port**: `1700`

Copy the **Gateway ID** which you will need in the next step.

> {{< note "The LPS8N Web UI refers to Gateway EUI as the Gateway ID, which is the Gateway EUI for {{% tts %}}." />}}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{{< note "The LPS8N Gateway ID is equivalent to {{% tts %}} Gateway EUI." />}}
```

Select **Save & Apply**.

{{< figure src="../lorawan-config.png" alt="LoRaWAN Configuration" >}}

## Adding LPS8N to {{% tts %}}

> You can add the LPS8N gateway to {{% tts %}} by following the instructions on the [ Adding Gateways]({{< ref "/gateways/concepts/adding-gateways" >}}) page. The **Gateway EUI** should be the **Gateway ID** that you have copied from the LPS8N's Web UI.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can add the LPS8N gateway to {{% tts %}} by following the instructions on the [ Adding Gateways]({{< ref "/gateways/concepts/adding-gateways" >}}) page. Use the **Gateway ID** value that you previously copied for the **Gateway EUI** field.
```

{{< figure src="../add-gateway.png" alt="Add Gateway" >}}

Finally, test your connection by going to the LPS8N's **Overview** page. You should see the gateway status changed to **connected** (indicated by a blue dot) or observe the frequently updating **Last seen** time. Also, see the **Live data** section for various gateway related activities.

{{< figure src="../gateway-add-ok.png" alt="Gateway add OK" >}}

You can also verify the presence of a green tick on the LoRa icon in the Web UI.

> {{< figure src="../lorawan-ok.png" alt="LoRaWAN OK" >}}

Reviewer: Is this not available for connecting via LBS or?

Author: I wouldn't know for sure, but i would guess so. I'll add it
